Q1. Write a program to calculate the Average of Numbers in a Given List

Problem Solution
1.	Take the number of elements to be stored in the list as input.
2.	Use a for loop to input elements into the list.
3.	Calculate the total sum of elements in the list.
4.	Divide the sum by total number of elements in the list.
5.	Exit

Q2. Write a program to reverse a given number

Problem Solution
1.	Take the value of the integer and store in a variable.
2.	Using a while loop, get each digit of the number and store the reversed number in another variable.
3.	Print the reverse of the number.
4.	Exit.

Q3. Write a Python Program to print all integers that aren’t divisible by either 2 or 3 and lies between 1 and 50.

Problem Solution
1.	Use a for-loop ranging from 0 to 51.
2.	Then use an if statement to check if the number isn’t divisible by both 2 and 3.
3.	Print the numbers satisfying the condition.
4.	Exit.

Q4. Write a Python Program to Put Even and Odd elements in a given List into Two Different Lists

Problem Solution
1.	Take in the number of elements and store it in a variable.
2.	Take in the elements of the list one by one.
3.	Use a for loop to traverse through the elements of the list and an if statement to check if the element is even or odd.
4.	If the element is even, append it to a separate list and if it is odd, append it to a different one.
5. Display the elements in both the lists.
6.	Exit.

Q5 Write a Python Program to Read a List of Words and Return the Length of the Longest One 

Problem Solution
1. Take the number of elements in the list and store it in a variable.
2. Accept the values into the list using a for loop and insert them into the list.
3. First assume that the first element is the word with the longest length.
4. Then using a for loop and if statement, compare the lengths of the words in the list with the first element.
5. Store the name of the word with the longest length in a temporary variable.
6. Display the word with the longest length
7. Exit.

Q6. Write a Python Program to Count the Number of Vowels in a String

Problem Solution
1. Take a string from the user and store it in a variable.
2. Initialize a count variable to 0.
3. Use a for loop to traverse through the characters in the string.
4. Use an if statement to check if the character is a vowel or not and increment the count variable if it is a vowel.
5. Print the total number of vowels in the string.
6. Exit.

Q7. Write a Python Program to Calculate the Number of Upper Case Letters and Lower Case Letters in a String

Problem Solution
1. Take a string from the user and store it in a variable.
2. Initialize the two count variables to 0.
3. Use a for loop to traverse through the characters in the string and increment the first count variable each time a lowercase character is encountered and increment the second count variable each time a uppercase character is encountered.
4. Print the total count of both the variables.
5. Exit.

Q8. Write a Python Program to Check if a Substring is Present in a Given String

Problem Solution
1. Take a string and a substring from the user and store it in separate variables.
2. Check if the substring is present in the string using find() in-built function.
3. Print the final result.
4. Exit.

Q9. Write a Python Program to Check if a Given Key Exists in a Dictionary or Not

Problem Solution
1. Declare and initialize a dictionary to have some key-value pairs.
2. Take a key from the user and store it in a variable.
3. Using an if statement and the in operator, check if the key is present in the dictionary using the dictionary.keys() method.
4. If it is present, print the value of the key.
5. If it isn’t present, display that the key isn’t present in the dictionary.
6. Exit.

Q10. Write a Python Program to Sum All the Items in a Dictionary

Problem Solution
1. Declare and initialize a dictionary to have some key-value pairs.
2. Find the sum of all the values in the dictionary.
3. Print the total sum.
4. Exit.